throw and throw ex 

where throw is giving more details in stack trace 
throw ex gives less details than throw 


public static void main(string[] args){

int i =0;

while(i < 5){
console.writeline(i);
i++;
}

}


int[] array = new int[] {1,1,1,1,1};

foreach(int i in array){
console.writline(i);
}


using is used to dispose the object so no need to dispose the object by manually and it is mainly used in database connection 



boxing and unboxing 
boxing = convert value type into reference type.

unboxing reverse process

string is immutable so you can not modify once it is created 
every time you will assign it will create new string 

String occupy different memory in process
StringBuilder occupy same memory in process

code and build project create assembly .dll or exe
bin folder
.Net framework convert it into assembly

Garbage Collection all unused object will be realesed and free the space 

Serialization = convert class object into bytes mainly used in Web API to convert Class object into JSON string.

string JsonData = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(obj);
Response.write(JsonData);

-------------------------------

DBMS stores data in file.... XML
RDBMS stores data in tabular form.  ....  MySQL,SQL server, Oracle

Normalization is not present.
Normalization is present.

Constraints are used to limit the type of data that can go into table.

Primary Key  ---- Unique identify each row.
Not NULL ---- Not null field
Foreign Key   --- Field which can identify each row in another table.
CHECK --- to validate the column value like age>18.
Default  --- GETDATE() which will automatically take value.


Primary key can't accept null.
Unique key can accept only one null value.

PK creates clustered index.
UK creates non-clustered index.

PK only one PK in Table.
More than one UK in table.


A View is a virtual table whhich consist of a subset of data contained in a table or more than one table.

create view india-customer as
select custName,ContactName
from Customers
where country = 'india'.

View are not stored in a memory. Query is stored but data is never stored in a table.
Indexed views to improve the performance.
DBA can hide the actual table name and expose views for read operations.

select lastname, firstname
from employees where officeCode in (select officecode from offices where country = 'USA')

Left Outer Join - It returns all data from left table and matching data from the two tables.
Right Outer Join - It returns all data from right table and matching data from the left table.

Inner Join - matching records from two tables.

A self join is a join of a table itself.
employeeid and managerid in same table...

select e.first_name as employee
m.first_name as manager
from 
employee e self join
employee m
ON m.employee_id = e.employee_id
order by manager;

Stored Procedure and Functions-

-SP may or may not return a value but function must return a value.
-SP can have input/output parameters but function only has input parameters
- We can call function inside SP but can't call SP from functions.
- we can't use SP in SQL statements like select,insert, update delete etc. but we can use them with function.

ex. select *, dbo.fnCountry(city.long) from city.
- use try-catch in Sp but can't use in function.

create procedures proc_name
(@Ename varchar(50), @EId int output)
as begin
 insert into Employee (EmpName) values (@Ename)
 select @Eid = SCOPE_Identity()

End

---- Function----

create function func_name (param)

return data_type as 
begin

sql statements
return value;

end


SQL Indexes are used in relational databases to retrieve data very fast.
Where the data position is right now.

Clustered index defines the order in which data is physically stored in a table.
There can be only one clustered index per table.

In sql server, if you set a primary key on a column then it will automatically creates a 
clustered index on that column.

Non-Clustered index is stored at one place and table data is stored in another place.
So, this index is not physically stored.
A table can have multiple non-clustered index in a table.

Clustered index is faster.

Where clause is used before GROUP BY clause.
Having clause is used after GROUP BY clause.
