OOPS 

Inheritance

- it is creating a parent-child relationship between two classes where child class
will automatically get the properties and methods of the parents.

- Inheritance is good for code reusability and abstraction of code.

How to prevent class from being Inherited ?
- By writing 'sealed' in base class.

Single inheritance 

Multiple Inheritance - 2 Base class and 1 Derived Achieved by Interface

Multilevel Inheritance - 1 grand parent, parent and child

Hirerarchical - 1 base class and multiple child class.

Polymorphisam is the ability of a variable, object or function to take on multiple forms.

Function with same function name but different forms is called method Overloading(compile time).



Encapsulation means wrapping of data, methods and properties into a single unit.

Method Overloading is a type of polymorphism in which we can create multiple methods of the same name 
in the same class, and all methods works in different ways.

Mthod Overriding is having method with the same name and signature but in different classes.

Method Overloading will not use such keywords.
Method Overriding uses Virtual Keyword in base class method and OVERride keyword in derived class method.

Method Overloading doesn't need Inheritance.
MOverriding needs Inheritance. it is not possible in same class.

----- Abstraction and Interface -------------
Abstract class contain both declaration and definition of method.
Interface contains only declaration of methods.

Abstract class can contain methods, fields, constructor and other class members.
Interface contains methods only.

Abstract class does not support Multiple Inheritance.
Interface support Multiple Inheritance.


------- Why and when ----------
Abstract class is a good choice when you are sure some methods are concrete/defined 
and must be implemented in the same way in all derived class.

An interface is a good choice when you know a method has to be there, but it can be implemented
differently by independent derived class

We prefer Interface because it gives flexibility to modify the behaviour at later stage.

Nullable<int> i = null and int? i = null;


We can write multiple catch blocks but only one out of them will execute.

Finally block will be executed Irrespective of exception.

We can have only try block without catch block but we have to have finally block then.

Continue statement is used to skip the remaining statements inside the loop and transfers 
the controls to the beginning of the loop.

Break statement breaks the loop. It makes the control of the program to exit the loop.

Array is Strongly typed.This means that an array can store only specific type of elements.
ArrayList can store any type of elements.

Array can contain fixed number of items.
ArrayList can store any number of items.

Constructor is a special method of a class that is automatically called when an instance of 
a class is created.
Name of a constructor is same as class name.
Default constructor
Parameterized constructor

This keyword is used to refer to the current instance of the class.

Static is a class which object can not be created and which can not be inherited.

Using Keyword.....
1. Using directive. Using System.io
2. Using statements ensures that Dispose() method of the class object is called 
even if an exception occurs. Mostly used in database connections.

An ENUM is  special ::class :: that represents a group of constants.

The Garbage Collactor manages the allocation and release of memory.

A process is an execution of specific program.
A thread is the smallest unit of process that can be performed in an OS.


------------- Web API ---------------------------------------
Response code in WEB API
1XX - Informational --> Communicates transfer protocol-level information.

2XX - Success  --> Indicates that the client's request was accepted successfully.

3XX - Redirectional  --> This means request is not complete. The client must
                          take some additional action in order to complete their request.

4XX - Client Error ---> There is some error in API code.

5XX - Server Error   --> This means the error is not due to web api code
                       but due to some environment setting.